christopher breaux (born october 28, 1987), ocean began his musical career as a ghostwriter, prior to joining the hip hop collective odd future in 2010. in 2011, ocean released his critically successful debut mixtape nostalgia, ultra and subsequently secured a recording contract with def jam recordings.
drawing on electro-funk, ocean's debut album channel orange (2012) was one of the most acclaimed albums of 2012. it was nominated for album of the year and won best urban contemporary album at the 2013 grammy awards, while the album's hit single thinkin bout you garnered ocean a nomination for record of the year.
after a four-year hiatus, ocean released the visual project endless (2016) to fulfill contractual obligations with def jam, among his accolades, ocean has won two grammy awards and a brit award for international male solo artist.
he was named by time as one the world's most influential people in 2013, while his albums have been listed in rolling stone's 500 greatest albums of all time (2020).
outside music, ocean has collaborated as a photographer with vogue and i-d, and founded the luxury brand homer.
ocean was born on october 28, 1987, in 2006, ocean moved to los angeles to pursue his music career, working at various fast-food and service jobs to support himself.
in less than three years, he established himself as a songwriter under the name lonny breaux.
he adopted the stage name frank ocean and joined los angeles-based hip hop collective odd future, whom he had met in 2009. in april 2011, ocean stated that his relationship with def jam had strengthened since the release of the nostalgia, ultra.
ocean first appeared in tyler, the creator's music video for the single she, from tyler's debut studio album goblin (2011).
in june 2011, ocean revealed that he would work on the upcoming kanye west and jay-z collaborative album, watch the throne.
on july 28, 2011, a song titled thinkin bout you, leaked on the internet.
ocean released the cover art for his debut studio album's lead single, titled thinkin bout you, revealing the song would be released to digital retailers on april 10, 2012. perhaps this is r&b's ziggy stardust moment, where the controversy and publicity surrounding an artist's sexuality and the brilliance of his latest album combine to give his career unstoppable momentum.
— alexis petridis, 2012 in 2012, ocean released his debut studio album channel orange to universal acclaim from critics, who later named it the best album of the year in the hmv's poll of polls.
it also earned ocean six grammy award nominations and was credited by some writers for moving the r&b genre in a different, more challenging direction.
considered as ocean's first commercial release on a traditional record label, channel orange featured unconventional songs that were noted for their storytelling and social commentary, and a dense musical fusion that drew on jazz, soul, and r&b.
funk and electronic music also influenced his album.
the songs about unrequited love in particular received the most attention, partly because of ocean's announcement prior to the album's release, when he revealed that his first love was a man.
the announcement made global headlines, and some critics compared its cultural impact to when david bowie revealed that he was bisexual in 1972. channel orange debuted at number two on the billboard 200 and sold 131,000 copies in its first week.
at the 2013 brit awards, ocean won the brit award for international male solo artist.
on may 28, 2013, ocean announced the you're not dead ... 2013 tour; a fourteen-date european and canadian tour that began on june 16, 2013, in munich.
he had been scheduled to perform at the first night of ovo fest on august 4, 2013; however he was forced to cancel his appearance due to a small vocal cord injury.
the first night of the music festival was subsequently cancelled and james blake was booked to appear during the second night as ocean's replacement.
in february 2013, ocean confirmed that he had started work on his second studio album, which he confirmed would be another concept album.
he revealed that he was working with tyler, the creator, pharrell williams, and danger mouse on the record.
on march 10, 2014, the song hero was made available for free download on soundcloud.
the song is a collaboration with mick jones, paul simonon and diplo and is a part of converse's three artists.
one song series.
in april 2014, ocean stated that his second album was nearly finished.
in june, billboard reported that the singer was working with a string of artists such as happy perez (whom he worked with on nostalgia, ultra), charlie gambetta and kevin ristro, while producers hit-boy, rodney jerkins and danger mouse were also said to be on board.
in july 2016, he hinted at a possible second album with an image on his website pointing to a july release date.
by august 1, 2016, at approximately 3 am, an endless live stream shot in negative lighting in what is allegedly a brooklyn warehouse, on august 18 and 19, 2016, the live stream was accompanied with music and at midnight an apple music link was directed to a project called endless.
at midnight pacific time on august 20, 2016, a music video for a song titled nikes was uploaded to ocean's connect page on apple music and later to his own website.
on february 21, 2017, scottish dj and producer calvin harris announced his single slide, in which ocean and hip-hop trio migos were featured.
the single was released two days later and is from harris' fifth studio album funk wav bounces vol.
1. ocean and migos are credited with featured vocals and ocean and migos members, quavo and offset are credited songwriting, while production is handled by harris.
the other migos member, takeoff is not in the song.
the song was released on february 23, 2017, and featured on the first episode of ocean's beats 1 radio show, blonded radio.
it is also ocean's first recorded collaboration since leaving def jam, with ocean being listed in the liner notes as appear on subsequent episodes of blonded radio in april, ocean premiered biking featuring jay-z and tyler, the creator, lens, as well as an alternate version featuring travis scott, and a remix of endless track slide on me featuring young thug.
on may 15 ocean was featured on asap mob's raf, premiered on blonded alongside a solo version of biking.
on august 28, ocean released another single, provider, on blonded radio.
in october 2017, ocean published a photo essay titled new 17 to british magazine i-d. in the essay, ocean said if you liked two thousand and seventeen then you'll love two thousand and eighteen.
in november 2017, ocean hinted via tumblr that his fifth project was complete.
he also lent the songs provider, ivy, crack rock, chanel, nights and pretty sweet to the game, and sings the radio station jingles.
on february 14, 2018, ocean released moon river, a cover of the song performed by audrey hepburn in the 1961 film, breakfast at tiffany's.
in may 2018, ocean was featured on the tracks brotha man and purity from asap rocky's third studio album testing.
in august 2018, ocean featured on the song carousel from travis scott's third studio album astroworld, which released on the same day.
in september 2018, it was reported that ocean took legal action against scott through a cease and desist letter.
on february 5, 2019, ocean's tumblr account was hacked hinting info about more of ocean's material.
ocean was set to headline at coachella in october 2020. on august 8, 2021, frank ocean officially revealed his first fashion project, homer, initially announced by the singer in a financial times interview.
cites inspiration from childhood obsessions and heritage as a fantasy.
on september 13, 2021, new york, frank attended the met gala.
the singer surprised everyone by coming to the event holding a robotic green baby (the same color as his hair), which he took care as if it was real, cooing and cradling it.
on the red carpet, in an interview with keke palmer, when asked about the hardwired child, frank answered: hes starstruck, im starstruck.
the creature wore a galactic-printed onesie and could raise its limbs, making it seem almost lifelike.
ocean, on the other hand, opted for a black suede three-piece suit by prada and a white t-shirt underneath.
his accessories included a hat embroidered with dreamcore, a play on the animation company dreamworks, and a necklace by his luxury jewelry label, homer.
on december 25, 2021, ocean released a new 9-minute untitled song on his beats 1 radio show blonded radio featuring music contribution from cory henry.
ocean's music has been characterized by music writers as idiosyncratic in style.
in ocean's songwriting, jon pareles of the new york times observes open echoes of self-guided, innovative r&b songwriters like prince, stevie wonder, marvin gaye, maxwell, erykah badu and particularly r. kelly and his way of writing melodies that hover between speech and song, asymmetrical and syncopated.
ocean's lyrics deal with themes of love, longing, misgiving, ocean is among the most acclaimed artists of his generation.
andy kellman of allmusic wrote,frank ocean has been one of the more fascinating figures in contemporary music since his early-2010s arrival.
a singer and songwriter whose artful output has defied rigid classification as r&b, he has nonetheless pushed that genre forward with seemingly offhanded yet imaginatively detailed narratives in which he has alternated between yearning romantic and easygoing braggart.
on august 20, 2016, ocean released a 360-page magazine, boys don't cry, alongside his second album blonde.
on may 1, 2017, ocean attended annual met gala as a special photographer for vogue.
ocean's younger brother, ryan breaux, was killed in a car crash on august 2, 2020, at the age of 18. ocean wrote an open letter, initially intended for the liner notes on channel orange, that preemptively addressed speculation about his attraction in the past to another man.
in june 2016, following the orlando nightclub shooting that killed 49 people, ocean published an essay expressing his sadness and frustration.
in a 2011 interview, ocean stated that he had attempted to change his name to christopher francis ocean through a legal website on his 23rd birthday.
ocean sampled the music from the eagles' song hotel california on the song american wedding from nostalgia, ultra.
when asked about it, ocean said that eagles band member don henley was, apparently intimidated by my rendition of 'hotel california'.
he threatened to sue if i perform it again.
in response to ocean's comments, the eagles' legal representative released a statement: frank ocean did not merely 'sample' a portion of the eagles' 'hotel california,' he took the entire master track, plus the song's existing melody, and replaced the lyrics with his own; this is not creative, let alone 'intimidating.'
it's illegal.
for the record, don henley has not threatened or instituted any legal action against frank ocean, although the eagles are now considering whether they should.
on january 27, 2013, ocean was involved in a physical altercation with chris brown.
ocean alleged that brown attacked him after he refused to shake his hand during a parking dispute, ocean further alleged that he heard someone in brown's entourage call him a faggot, and that brown threatened to shoot him.
on march 7, 2014, ocean was sued by chipotle mexican grill for them to recoup the money they paid him in advance for a commercial that he backed out of because he objected to material in the advertisement.
the advertisement was to feature ocean singing the song pure imagination, and was to promote sustainable farming.
ocean backed out of the spot when chipotle refused to remove their logo and name from the advertisement.
