Odd Future’s most recognizable members Tyler, the Creator and Frank Ocean recently went in front of the lens to film a video for “She,” the second single from Tyler’s solo album Goblin (May 10). The OFWGKTA frontman shot scenes in a Los Angeles neighborhood with a pretty young thing as his leading lady.Singer-songwriter Ocean played double duty as a cop and “the man of the house,” almost unrecognizable in a white wig and drab attire. In one of the more chilling images, Tyler stares into the camera as a gun is pointed at his head, wearing the same black contacts he sported in his viral sensation “Yonkers.”Browse more pics from the Odd Future clan’s shoot below.[Frank Ocean via fersher.]Kanye West isn't letting his Instagram suspension get him down.
On Wednesday, Ye was spotted at the Golden State Warriors game …The mother of Young Thug's child was reportedly shot and killed at an Atlanta bowling alley.
LaKevia Jackson, 31, was attending …Soulja Boy is having a boy!
The rapper and his girlfriend are expecting their first child. Taking to Instagram on Saturday, …Hot on the heels of their collaboration "Blick Blick," Nicki Minaj welcomed Coi Leray while going live on Instagram Friday …Push it, push it, click, click.
Fresh off the release of their collaboration "Blick Blick," Coi Leray and Nicki Minaj pop …Did Travis Scott and Kylie Jenner secretly tie the knot?
The couple is sparking marriage rumors with a new photo. On …Steve Harvey is coming to D.L. Hughley's defense in the wake of his beef with Kanye West.
The comedian spoke out …Kanye West won't be performing at the Grammys next month.
According to The Game, Ye was scheduled to take the stage …After much anticipation, Coi Leray and Nicki Minaj join forces on their new collaboration "Blick Blick."
The irresistible bop, which is …Kodak Black came face to face with Donald Trump.
The "Super Gremlin" rapper met with the former president for the first …Kanye West's Grammy performance has been canceled.
According to Variety, Ye was "barred" from performing at next month's awards. A rep …Soulja Boy is having a boy!
The rapper and his girlfriend are expecting their first child. Taking to Instagram on Saturday, …Hot on the heels of their collaboration "Blick Blick," Nicki Minaj welcomed Coi Leray while going live on Instagram Friday …Kanye West won't be performing at the Grammys next month.
According to The Game, Ye was scheduled to take the stage …Kodak Black came face to face with Donald Trump.
The "Super Gremlin" rapper met with the former president for the first …Did Travis Scott and Kylie Jenner secretly tie the knot?
The couple is sparking marriage rumors with a new photo. On …The mother of Young Thug's child was reportedly shot and killed at an Atlanta bowling alley.
LaKevia Jackson, 31, was attending …Push it, push it, click, click.
Fresh off the release of their collaboration "Blick Blick," Coi Leray and Nicki Minaj pop …Just a week after dropping his album 7220, Lil Durk re-ups with a brand new song.
On "Computer Murderers," the OTF …After much anticipation, Coi Leray and Nicki Minaj join forces on their new collaboration "Blick Blick."
The irresistible bop, which is …%post_excerpt%
Game's son may be following in his dad's showbiz footsteps. The "Red Nation" rapper posted a video of his …
Game's son may be following in his dad's showbiz footsteps. The "Red Nation" rapper posted a video of his …
Adrienne Bailon is singing a new tune. After attempting to go solo, the former Cheetah Girl is switching up …
Adrienne Bailon is singing a new tune. After attempting to go solo, the former Cheetah Girl is switching up …